Paper 1 Outline (LOOK FOR APPROPRIATE BIOINFORMATICS JOURNAL - MAYBE SOMETHING NGS FOCUSED)
Paper 1 Outline 

Title:  Relative frequency measurements: Metrics for sample quality, sequencing integrity, and batch effects in targeted NGS.

I)	Background
    a. NGS/Target NGS differences and similarities (note first step in NGS is extraction – first step in HTG is qRT-PCR straight from FFPE or other sample)
    b. QC controls (illumina metrics - %PF, cluster density – these are read depth type metrics that are primarily qualitative)
    c. LLQ – HK – Control genes (not recommended – see Speed et. al. for review of this topic)
II)	Methods
    a. Brief discussion of RNA sequencing data as a composition (highlight hierarchical nature as it will be easier to describe metrics for read depth)
        i. Closure is due to technology (sequencers – see illumina brochure)
        ii.	Hierarchical structure as a type of amalgamation
        iii. Transformations – highlight CLR and how this is an extension of CPM/RTKM transformation
    b. QC metric similar to %PF as a composition – highlight novel in terms of quantitating this as a simple metric based on outliers 
    c. QC metric for assessing batch effects – highlight likely benefit of compositional framework for multivariate assessments 
        i. Aitchison Distance as a substitute for Euclidean distance 
        ii.	Can we prove that the compositional method is more accurate??
        iii.	
    d. Process control TBD possibilities
        i.	Compositional GOF – (expected equivalent proportionality across all probes – removal of HK, ANT, POS genes         ?? What are the issues here, mathematically?)
            1.	Compute Q3-Q1 based on CLR?
            2.	Is there a way to come up with a method that doesn’t depend on the empirical distribution for expectation?
            3.	Ratio of ANT to POS as a QC
            4.	Proportion of POS to everything else
        ii.	POS control as a process control – high proportion of relative counts in POS gene indicate poor quality samples?  Is this correlated with read depth?  -- need to be careful whether samples are pool clean-up or not)
        iii.	ANT gene same as ii – theoretically zero in best situation


V) Conclusions

